---
title: Backstory
full: false
---

One of my biggest issues I had during the first few years of my school
is simply choosing which courses I should take. While many courses are
already laid out for you through your program outlines, you still need
to decide which electives to take, and also potentially which stream
you want to enter within your program.

For example, I am a Computer Science student at Toronto Metropolitan
University. When I first enrolled, I had no idea what my course paths
would look like if I wanted to go into computer vision, or data science,
or software engineering (I actually want to go into software engineering
please hire me, thanks).

I had trouble imagining how the different paths of courses would look
even look because each course only has some prerequisites that are
needed in order to take it. There was no indication of where I could
go after taking it, or if it would even be useful without clicking into
four additional pages.

This is not even mentioning the restrictions that some of the courses
have. Some courses only run during the fall, and others only the winter.
Sometimes I found a course that would only run only when the first day
of the month happened to coincide with the full-moon and the year
happened to be a leap year...

## The Solution

Coursemap aims to solve two problems hinted at above, in two pieces that
can be switched between within the app.

### 1. Course Planning

This is done with a semester-oriented view of your program. You add
semesters that take place during a term, and add courses that you wish
to take during that term. Depending on your university, this data will
be found using public information or provided through one of your
university's APIs.

Additionally, coursemap will attempt to determine whether a course
typically runs during the fall, winter, spring/summer, or without a
predictable pattern at all. Additional warnings will be provided in
case of potential issues.

### 2. Course Visualization

This is done by visualizing how courses in specific categories flow into
each other using pre/post/anti requisite information. You will be able
to look at how courses fit together with a tree-like structure with
directed edges representing how courses depend on each other.

## The Solution (cont.)

Coursemap aims to be as unopinionated and unbiased as possible when it
comes to which universities are supported (read the [university support](/docs/university-support) section). The database
tables provided should be able to be generalized for any arbitrary
university, and hypothetically with some work, support them as well.
